When a neutron strikes the nucleus of an atom of the isotopes uranium-235 or
plutonium-239, it causes that nucleus to split into two fragments, each of
which is a nucleus with about half the protons and neutrons of the original
nucleus. In the process of splitting, a great amount of thermal energy, as well
as gamma rays and two or more neutrons, is released. Under certain conditions,
the escaping neutrons strike and thus fission more of the surrounding uranium
nuclei, which then emit more neutrons that split still more nuclei. This series
of rapidly multiplying fissions culminates in a chain reaction in which nearly
all the fissionable material is consumed, in the process generating the
explosion of what is known as an atomic bomb.

Many isotopes of uranium can undergo fission, but uranium-235, which is found
naturally at a ratio of about one part per every 139 parts of the isotope
uranium-238, undergoes fission more readily and emits more neutrons per fission
than other such isotopes. Plutonium-239 has these same qualities. These are the
primary fissionable materials used in atomic bombs. A small amount of
uranium-235, say 0.45 kg (1 pound), cannot undergo a chain reaction and is thus
termed a subcritical mass; this is because, on average, the neutrons released
by a fission are likely to leave the assembly without striking another nucleus
and causing it to fission. If more uranium-235 is added to the assemblage, the
chances that one of the released neutrons will cause another fission are
increased, since the escaping neutrons must traverse more uranium nuclei and
the chances are greater that one of them will bump into another nucleus and
split it. At the point at which one of the neutrons produced by a fission will
on average create another fission, critical mass has been achieved, and a chain
reaction and thus an atomic explosion will result.
